# Addiction Issues (Chronic) Trust Amendment

*NUMBER AMENDMENT TO
THE *CLIENT DECLARATION OF TRUST

Pursuant to Section 1.15 of The *CLIENT Declaration of Trust under Agreement dated *TRUSTDATE (the “Trust Agreement”), I, *CLIENT, settlor and trustee under the Trust Agreement, hereby make this First Amendment to the Trust Agreement dated as of this _____ day of *MONTH, 20*YEAR.
FIRST. I hereby delete in its entirety Section *TRUSTSECTION of the Trust Agreement and add in its place a new Section *TRUSTSECTION to the Trust Agreement, to read in its entirety as follows:
“2.11.  TRUSTEE LIABILITY AND DEFENSE.  When acting in the Trustee’s fiduciary capacity, except for willful action or omission or gross negligence, the Trustee shall not be liable for any act, omission, loss, damage or expense arising from the administration of this Trust, including, without limitation, the investment and reinvestment of the Trust Estate with or without the advice of investment counsel, or pursuant to or contrary to the recommendation of investment counsel.  The Trustee shall not be liable for any acts, omissions or defaults of any agent or depositary properly appointed, selected or delegated authority hereunder with reasonable care.  Each Trustee shall be liable only for such Trustee’s own acts or omissions occasioned by the willfulness or gross neglect of such Trustee and shall not be responsible for the acts or omissions of any other Trustee; in particular, no Trustee shall be liable in regard to the exercise or nonexercise of any powers and discretions delegated pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement to the other Trustee.
The Trustee may expend the Trust Estate to defend any action of any type or any claim of any type brought against the Trustee by any beneficiary or any other person, including, but not limited to, claims of breach of fiduciary duty or actions to remove the Trustee, even if the cost of the Trustee’s defense, including, but not limited to, fees of attorneys, costs of litigation and the costs of appeal bonds, would fully exhaust the Trust Estate.  It is expressly provided that such cost of the Trustee’s defense in the case of a Trustee who is an individual shall include all the time the Trustee shall expend on such defense, and the Trustee shall be entitled to receive compensation for the Trustee’s time in such defense at the hourly rate that he regularly charges other persons for his services or, if the Trustee has no such regular hourly rate, at an hourly rate that reasonably would be charged by an individual performing such services.  It also is expressly provided that if any such action or claim is brought against the Trustee by a beneficiary, such cost of the Trustee’s defense shall be paid from the separate share or trust of such beneficiary.  The Trustee shall be required to reimburse the Trust Estate for all such expenditures and costs (including, but not limited to, the Trustee’s compensation for such defense as provided above) only after the entry of a final order by a court, after all appeal rights have been exhausted, finding that the Trustee was liable for loss, damage or expense arising from the administration of the trust occasioned by the Trustee’s willful action or omission or gross negligence.”
THIRD:  I hereby add a new Section 3.28 to the Trust Agreement, to be added immediately after Section 3.27 of the Trust Agreement, and to read in its entirety as follows:
“3.28. 	TRUSTEE AUTHORITY REGARDING CONCERNS IN A BENEFICIARY.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement as to distributions of income or principal from any trust under Section 1.8 of this Agreement, the Trustee, in the Trustee’s sole discretion, may withhold distributions of principal or income (including mandatory distributions of principal) from any beneficiary who, in the Trustee’s sole discretion, may have: a substance use disorder or addiction, other disorders, compulsive or destructive behaviors, mental health conditions or concerns or any combination of the foregoing (collectively referred to as a “Disorder” or “Disorders”).  Such beneficiary shall be referred to as the “Beneficiary” in this Section 3.28.
Such principal or income shall be retained and held by the Trustee until such time as the Trustee determines, in the Trustee’s sole discretion, that the Beneficiary is in recovery from the Disorder.  Any amounts so withheld and accumulated may be retained in the trust rather than distributed, at the Trustee’s sole discretion.  However, the Trustee is authorized to expend income and principal for the purposes set forth in this Section.
If the Beneficiary dies before mandatory distributions are resumed, the remaining balance of the mandatory distributions that were suspended will be distributed to the remainder beneficiaries of the Beneficiary’s trust share.
While mandatory distributions are suspended, the trust will be administered as a discretionary trust to provide for the Beneficiary as provided in this Section.
The Trustee is authorized to employ and retain experts on Disorders and resultant family conflict to advise the Trustee regarding any matters, issues or determinations in this Section.  The Trustee may designate such experts to receive information or perform tasks on the Trustee’s behalf in order to implement this Section.  Further, the Trustee may employ experts to recommend comprehensive treatment and post-treatment recovery programs and to oversee and implement such programs.  In addition, the Trustee is authorized to employ and be advised by experts regarding entering into and preparing agreements between the Beneficiary and the Trustee specifying recovery activities by the Beneficiary, including such activities that are funded directly or indirectly by the trust.
The Trustee is further authorized to utilize and rely on the professional judgment of a reputable treatment center, utilizing an abstinence-based chemical dependency treatment model and recognized by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Health Care Organizations, for evaluations, recommendations and treatment regarding the Beneficiary’s suspected or actual Disorder.
The Trustee has sole discretion regarding the employment and use of any such treatment centers or other resources such as supervised living facilities, half-way houses, sober homes and wilderness programs as needed.  The Settlor would expect, but does not require, that any experts utilized by the Trustee shall be licensed and credentialed as per applicable state standards and guidelines, with any professional authorized to prescribe medications certified by ASAM (American Society of Addiction Medicine) or under the direct supervision and direction of an ASAM certified professional.
The Trustee has full authority and discretion to expend funds for advice regarding implementation of this Section, to develop and implement plans for intervention for the Beneficiary.  Such authority includes expending funds for evaluations, treatment and all related costs, for post-treatment recovery programs, and any and all related matters deemed appropriate by the Trustee in the Trustee’s sole discretion.  This paragraph is fully applicable to non-compliant behavior with treatment plans and behavioral relapses.
In making determinations as to whether the Beneficiary is participating in, has successfully completed an approved and applicable treatment program and/or is engaged in an active recovery program, the Trustee (and/or the Trustee’s designee) is authorized to receive reports from counselors and staff from treatment programs of any kind, sponsors and all health care professionals or others providing assistance to the Beneficiary.
In addition, the Beneficiary must fully comply with all recommendations of treatment programs and health care professionals, as approved by the Trustee (and/or the Trustee’s designee).  The Beneficiary must sign consents for full release of information to the Trustee (and/or the Trustee’s designee) in order to be in compliance with this paragraph.  Failure to sign all requested authorizations means the Beneficiary is not in recovery.
The Trustee (and/or the Trustee’s designee) may utilize the services of a reliable and licensed drug testing company to randomly drug test the Beneficiary during the first three years of Recovery “as defined herein”, and/or if the Beneficiary may be disputing whether he or she is using alcohol or drugs.  The Trustee (and the Trustee’s designee) is authorized to require continued drug testing for so long as the Trustee deems such testing to be advisable, regardless of any other provision in this Section.  Full disclosure of results from such tests shall be made in a timely manner to the Trustee (and/or the Trustee’s designee).
The Settlor recommend that such tests be conducted under the observation of personnel from the drug testing service or their designee, and may include but not be limited to laboratory tests of hair, tissue, or bodily fluids.
It is expressly provided that the Trustee, in the exercise of sole and absolute discretion, may totally or partially suspend all distributions otherwise required or permitted to be made to the Beneficiary until the Beneficiary consents to the examination and complies with full disclosure of the results to the Trustee.
“Recovery”, as used in this Section, is defined as no less than a minimum of three years of continuous sobriety (including abstention from narcotic prescription medicines, drugs, alcohol or other addictive or compulsive behaviors or use disorders) and/or three years continuous adherence to treatment plans in the case of mental health conditions.  Only medications consistent with the Beneficiary’s recovery program will be considered as meeting the foregoing definition.  “Recovery” also requires, but is not limited to, ongoing participation in a recovery program, as determined by the Trustee or the Trustee’s designee.  Examples include attending 12 step or other self help groups, therapy, case management meetings, avoiding high risk relapse environments and adhering to recovery plans, recommendations or agreements.
The  three-year minimum shall be extended if the Beneficiary has a history of relapse, is not compliant with treatment plans or fails to actively engage in a recovery program, with such time extensions determined at the sole discretion of the Trustee.
In the event the Beneficiary has not completed the three-year minimum of recovery or extensions thereof, the Trustee has the discretion to disburse income and/or principal on behalf of the Beneficiary in amounts to support the Beneficiary’s recovery program.  The Trustee is authorized to rely on the advice of experts in implementing the Beneficiary’s recovery program.
The commencement of any time period of recovery begins after the Beneficiary has successfully completed chemical dependency inpatient primary treatment (or other addiction or mental health related treatment) and any subsequent long-term, halfway, sober house or wilderness program.  (Such time does not commence upon entering treatment, but when successfully completing out-patient treatment or leaving a supervised or otherwise restrictive environment.)  Successful completion of any such program is determined by the treatment provider and as approved by the Trustee, who may rely on the advice and opinion or experts independent of any treatment center.
In the event of withholding of or restriction on distributions to the Beneficiary, the Trustee is authorized to make distributions for the benefit of the Beneficiary, including to those owed a duty of support by the Beneficiary, such as the Beneficiary’s spouse, ex-spouse, children or other family members.  The Trustee is authorized to make arrangements for the support of such individuals through distributions by alternative means, as the Trustee determines in the Trustee’s sole discretion, with the intent to maintain such individuals’ lifestyle, including paying support staff and third party vendors.
The Trustee (and any professional, advisor, assistant, or other person including their business entities, hired and/or retained by the Trustee) will be indemnified from the trust for any liability in exercising the Trustee’s judgment and authority in this Section, including any failure to request the Beneficiary to submit to medical examination and including a decision to distribute suspended amounts to the Beneficiary.  This indemnification clause includes any allegations of any kind brought by the Beneficiary, or on behalf of the Beneficiary, directly or indirectly against the Trustee and those hired and/or retained by the Trustee.  If such allegations occur, the respondent has the option of requesting the trust to provide the defense or asking the trust to pay to the respondent funds for his or her defense.
It is not the Settlor’s intention to make the Trustee (or any professional, advisor, assistant, or other person including their business entities, hired and/or retained by the Trustee) responsible or liable to anyone for the Beneficiary’s actions or welfare.
The Trustee has no duty to inquire whether the Beneficiary uses alcohol, drugs or other substance or has any Disorder.
In making decisions under this Section for a trust to fund costs of treatment or recovery of the Beneficiary or otherwise, the Trustee may consider other resources of the Beneficiary available to pay such costs.
If distributions to the Beneficiary are suspended or withheld as provided above in this Section, then the Beneficiary shall automatically be disqualified from serving, and if applicable, shall immediately cease serving, as a Trustee, or in any other capacity in which the Beneficiary would serve as, or participate in, the removal or appointment of any Trustee.
The withholding or suspension of benefits to the Beneficiary is sufficient evidence to suspend or terminate the Beneficiary’s role in other family positions or activities.  If the Beneficiary contests such suspension or termination, the Trustee is authorized to release information relating to the Beneficiary’s addiction to the family members.”
FOURTH:  Except as amended herein, I hereby affirm and ratify the Trust Agreement.
WITNESS my signature:
_________________________________________
*CLIENT, Grantor and Trustee

______________________________	)
)  ss.
______________________________		)
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this _____ day of February, 2021 by *CLIENT, Grantor and Trustee.

Notary Public
(SEAL)
My commission expires:  ________________, _______

91592981_2
