# Investment Manager

Investment Manager. NAME is appointed as the Investment Manager of the Trust Estate so long as said Investment Manager is willing and able to act as such manager. Trustor reserves the right to change the Investment Manager of the Trust from time to time by written notification to the Trustee. So long as the Investment Manager is acting in that capacity, the duties and obligations of the parties shall be as follows. The Investment Manager shall have sole responsibility for all investment decisions concerning the Trust Estate (other than the sale of any real property held by the Trust Estate). Trustee shall have no responsibility for investment decisions, no duty to conduct reviews of the investments by the Investment Manager and shall have no responsibility to take action with respect to the investment of the Trust Estate, except upon receipt of written instructions from the Investment Manager. Notwithstanding the above, (i) the Trustee shall manage and invest otherwise un-invested cash in its sole discretion; (ii) if at any time there is no Investment Manager or if the Investment Manager fails to respond in writing in 15 days to any written request, then the Trustee may take such action as it deems to be in the best interest of the beneficiaries of the trust; and, (iii) the Investment Manager shall not have any right or power to direct the Trustee to act in any manner inconsistent with any other duty or requirement herein set forth, or to direct the Trustee to act in any manner inconsistent with Virginia laws concerning the fiduciary responsibilities of a Trustee. The Trustee shall incur no liability with respect to the investment decisions and directions of the Investment Manager. The Investment Manager need not inquire into the Trustee's performance of its duties, and shall not be held liable for any loss whatsoever to the trust, unless it results from actions taken in bad faith. The Investment Manager may employ an affiliated entity to provide investment advice, securities brokerage services and custodial services. The Trust may pay such affiliated entity compensation for such services to the Trust based on the current fee schedule of such affiliated entity.

In the event the Investment Manager provides the Trustee with written notice of resignation or is removed by me, and I fail to appoint a new Investment Manager within thirty (30) days, the Trustee shall take on the duties of the Investment Manager and shall exclusively exercise all investment powers concerning the trust fund.
