# Marital Deduction Trust Provision

If *BENEFICIARYFIRSTNAME survives me, the Trustee shall hold the residue of the Trust Estate in further trust (hereinafter referred to as the “Marital Deduction Trust”) to be administered as follows:

It is my intention to have the Marital Deduction Trust qualify for the marital deduction under §2056(b)(7) of the Code or any corresponding or substitute provisions of the Code applicable to that deduction. In no event shall the Trustee take any action or have any power that will impair the marital deduction, and all provisions regarding the Marital Deduction Trust shall be interpreted to conform to this primary objective.

*BENEFICIARYFIRSTNAME shall have the power to require the Trustee to make all or part of the principal of the Marital Deduction Trust productive or to convert promptly any unproductive part of the Marital Deduction Trust into productive property. This power shall be exercised by *BENEFICIARYFIRSTNAME in a written instrument delivered to the Trustee.

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Trust Agreement, *BENEFICIARYFIRSTNAME shall have the right to disclaim all or any part of the Marital Deduction Trust (i.e., the disclaimer may be as to specific assets, specific sums of money, a percentage or a fractional interest in the Marital Deduction Trust). In the event of a disclaimer in all or a part of the Marital Deduction Trust, such disclaimed portion (including all income attributable thereto) shall be held further trust as the “Exemption Trust”.

In the event that a timely election shall not be made pursuant to §2056(b)(7)(B)(v) of the Code or any corresponding or substitute provisions of the Code applicable to that election, or if such election shall not, for any reason, prove effective, *BENEFICIARYFIRSTNAME shall have a power of appointment over any part of the Marital Deduction Trust for which said election has not been made or for which said election is not effective (the “non-election” portion). This power of appointment can be exercised only in the Will of *BENEFICIARYFIRSTNAME which shall specifically refer to this power and shall be exercised only in favor of the creditors of the estate of *BENEFICIARYFIRSTNAME. “Will” does not include a codicil.

*BENEFICIARYFIRSTNAME shall not at any time have a general power of appointment (as described in §§2041 and 2514 of the Code) over any assets of the Exemption Trust and any provisions of this Trust Agreement which would so create a general power of appointment shall be disregarded.

No less frequently than annually, the Trustee shall pay to or apply for the benefit of *BENEFICIARYFIRSTNAME the net income of both the Marital Deduction Trust and the Exemption Trust; provided, however, no income of the Exemption Trust shall be distributed to *BENEFICIARYFIRSTNAME if she is otherwise eligible for any “need based” governmental benefits or assistance. Any income of the Exemption Trust not so distributed shall be added to the principal of such Trust. Provided further, and notwithstanding the above-stated power to withhold income from the Exemption Trust, no less frequently than annually, the Trustee shall pay to or apply for the benefit of the *BENEFICIARYFIRSTNAME the “annual minimum required distribution” from any qualified plan account and/or Individual Retirement Account (“IRA”) from which the right to receive distributions is held by either Trust. In addition thereto, *BENEFICIARYFIRSTNAME has the power, exercisable annually, to compel the Trustee to withdraw from any qualified plan account and/or Individual Retirement Account (“IRA”) from which the right to receive distributions is held by the Marital Deduction Trust an amount equal to the accounting income of the IRA, according to state law, during the year which is in excess of the annual minimum required distribution of such account(s) and to distribute that amount to or apply it for the benefit of *BENEFICIARYFIRSTNAME. In no event shall the Uniform Principal and Income Act's “10% rule” be acceptable for the determination of the accounting income.

If the Trustee considers the income of *BENEFICIARYFIRSTNAME to be insufficient, then the Trustee may also pay to or apply for her benefit such sums out of the principal of the Marital Deduction Trust and/or the Exemption Trust as the Trustee, in the Trustee’s absolute discretion, shall consider necessary for her proper health, support and maintenance; provided however, no part of the Marital Deduction Trust and/or the Exemption Trust shall be subject to claim by any governmental agency. For all purposes concerning this power to distribute principal to or for the benefit of *BENEFICIARYFIRSTNAME, if co-Trustees are then-acting and if *BENEFICIARYFIRSTNAME is one such co-Trustee, this power shall be limited to the co-Trustee or co-Trustees other than *BENEFICIARYFIRSTNAME. Although not mandatory, it is suggested that payments out of principal to *BENEFICIARYFIRSTNAME shall be made in the following order of priority: the Marital Deduction Trust and then the Exemption Trust. In addition, the Trustee may also consider the other assets and income of *BENEFICIARYFIRSTNAME in making such discretionary payments.

Further, the Trustee is authorized and directed to pay over to the executor, administrator, or personal representative of *BENEFICIARYFIRSTNAME so much of the Marital Deduction Trust as such executor, administrator, or personal representative shall state in writing is necessary or desirable to provide her estate with funds with which to pay her funeral expenses and the costs of administration of her estate; provided however, such executor, administrator, or personal representative shall first establish to the satisfaction of the Trustee that the estate of *BENEFICIARYFIRSTNAME and/or any inter-vivos trusts established by *BENEFICIARYFIRSTNAME are insufficient to cover such expenses; provided further, that any transfer, estate and inheritance taxes which may be imposed upon the Marital Deduction Trust shall be paid by the Trustee from such trust, regardless of the size and/or nature of the estate of *BENEFICIARYFIRSTNAME. If such executor, administrator, or personal representative fails to furnish any such directions or if no such executor, administrator, or personal representative is appointed, the Trustee may, in its discretion, pay in whole or in part all expenses of funeral and estate administration of *BENEFICIARYFIRSTNAME.

On the death of *BENEFICIARYFIRSTNAME or on my death if *BENEFICIARYFIRSTNAME is not then living, the Trustee shall distribute the Trust Estate in the manner set forth below for the distribution of the remainder of the Trust Estate.
