# POA Protector Language

3.G.	Protector. Michael D. Gill III shall be appointed as Protector of this Power of Attorney Agreement, or, if he is unable or unwilling to serve, then a member of the firm of Speedwell Law, PLLC or its successor. The Protector shall have the following powers:
If co-agents are acting and there shall be a dispute, deadlock or difference of opinion between the co-agents on a question of joint discretion which cannot be decided by majority vote, the Protector shall have the power to resolve any disputes between them. The decision of the Protector shall be set forth in a written instrument, delivered to the co-agents and shall be binding on the issue in dispute.
The Protector shall have the power to demand a twelve-month accounting on a rolling basis from the agent and the power to review the appropriateness of investments and expenditures made on the Principal’s behalf. The Agent shall have 120 days from the date of demand to render said accounting.
The Protector shall have the power to remove any agent for negligence or malfeasance of any kind, and such decision shall be delivered in writing explaining the reason for removal. The Protector shall have the power to determine a refusal or inability to serve by a nominated successor agent. The Protector shall have the power to appoint a new or successor power of attorney by an instrument in writing.
The Protector shall be paid a reasonable fee based on the time and effort of the Protector. The Protector shall specifically not be considered a fiduciary for any services rendered hereunder and shall have complete and sole discretion in carrying out the role of Protector.
The Protector shall have the power to determine the incapacity of the principal according to the following provisions:
The Protector must conduct an independent investigation into the allegation.
The Protector must consult a doctor and obtain a cognitive assessment test such as, but not limited to, the Mini Mental Status Examination or Montreal Cognitive Assessment.
The Protector must establish the Principal’s incapacity via a written instrument explaining the reasoning for the Protector’s determination. An affidavit affirming that such a written determination has been made and stating the effective date of the incapacitation shall suffice for reliance by a third party.
If Michael D. Gill III is unavailable or unwilling to act, then Mr. Gill may appoint a successor Protector by designating such successor by an instrument in writing delivered to the then-acting Trustee of my Trust and to me; and may, by the same method, revoke any designation of a successor Protector before it becomes effective.
