# Testamentary Trust Amendments

Testamentary Trust Amendments

Distribution at My Death; Administered in Trust. If [BENEFICIARY] is then-living, I give the remainder of my Estate (consisting of the rest, residue and remainder of my property, real, personal and mixed, of every kind and description, and wherever located, including all benefits payable to my Estate as a result of my employment and all lapsed or void legacies or devises, but excluding any property over which I shall have any power of appointment), plus all accrued income, to [BENEFICIARY]. If [BENEFICIARY] shall predecease me, I give the remainder of my Estate to my heirs; the identities and respective shares of such heirs to be determined according to the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia in effect at the date of execution of this Will. I direct that the aforementioned distributions are to be held and administered in trust until such time as final distribution is made.

Duty to Account. The Trustee shall render accounts as frequently as is required by Virginia law, at the termination of a trust, and on a change of Trustee, to the persons and in the manner required by law, except as such reporting shall be waived by such person. If the persons entitled to an accounting are minors, their accounting shall be delivered to their parents or guardian. If the persons entitled to an accounting are incapacitated, their accounting shall be delivered to their legal representative. Unless the accounting is objected to in writing within one hundred and eighty (180) days after mailing to the persons to whom the accounting is to be rendered, the account shall be deemed final and conclusive in respect to all transactions disclosed in the accounting. The accounting shall be binding on all persons interested in the trust, including those who are not known or who are not yet born. The records of the Trustee shall be open at all reasonable times to such inspections. I hereby direct that my trustee(s) shall not be required to file annual accounts with a court as otherwise required by Virginia law; however, nothing herein stated shall be deemed to restrict the Trustee from seeking judicial approval of the Trustee’s accounts.
