# Trust Protector Language

Trust Protector. I reserve the right, to appoint and remove a Trust Protector of this trust at any time or times by written notification to the then-acting Trustee. During my lifetime, I may not be removed as Trustee of this Trust, except pursuant to court order, or as I shall resign, or pursuant to the incapacity provisions of this Trust Agreement.  If any appointed Trust Protector is unwilling or unable to act, then such Trust Protector may appoint a successor Trust Protector by designating such successor by an instrument in writing delivered to the then-acting Trustee and to me; and may, by the same method, revoke any designation of a successor Trust Protector before it becomes effective. In addition, any successor Trust Protector so serving is authorized to designate, by an instrument in writing delivered to the then-acting Trustee, a successor Trust Protector. A successor Trustee, or the adult beneficiaries (in the case of a minor, as represented by their Guardian) holding a present interest in the Trust Estate may, by majority election, appoint an independent third-party to act as Trust Protector if one has not been previously appointed. In the case of a dispute between successor trustee(s) and the beneficiaries as to the selection of a Trust Protector, the choice of the beneficiaries shall prevail. If no Trust Protector may act due to death, disability, defunct practice, or the Trustee’s inability to locate them within 90 days of commencing a reasonable and diligent search, the adult beneficiaries of the trust, or in the case of a minor, as represented by their Guardian, holding a present interest in the Trust Estate may elect a successor Trust Protector by majority election of said beneficiaries. No beneficiary of a trust established herein and no other person whose appointment may cause such person to be treated as the owner of the trust (or any portion thereof) for federal income tax purposes (pursuant to §§671, et seq, of the Code) may serve as Trust Protector. In exercising discretion as the Trust Protector, it is my specific intent that the Trust Protector shall not be deemed to be a trustee or fiduciary with respect to any trust hereunder, and shall not be liable or accountable as a trustee or fiduciary because of an act or omission of the Trust Protector when performing or failing to perform the duties of a Trust Protector under this Trust. The Trust Protector shall be paid a reasonable fee based on the time and effort of the Trust Protector, payable without court order and shall be reimbursed for out-of-pocket expenses. The Trust Protector’s powers shall specifically apply to any sub-trust or entity created by the terms of this trust. Any acting Trust Protector shall have the following powers:

The Trust Protector may remove any and all Trustees or successor Trustees for gross negligence, intentional malfeasance, or incapacity, refusal, or inability to serve, and may designate and appoint successor Trustees; such removal and appointment shall be by an instrument in writing, and the removal shall only be effective upon the signed acceptance of the successor Trustee agreeing to the appointment. Provided, however, that the Trust Protector may not appoint himself or herself as the Trustee. In the event that a successor Trustee is either removed or appointed pursuant to any other provision of this Article III, the Trust Protector may either reinstate or remove such successor Trustee.

If co-Trustees are acting and there shall be a dispute, deadlock or difference of opinion between them on a question of joint discretion which cannot be decided by majority vote, such conflict shall be settled by the Trust Protector. The decision of the Trust Protector shall be set forth in a written instrument, delivered to the co-Trustees and shall be binding on the issue in dispute.

The Trust Protector shall receive a copy of all notices, reports and/or accountings required by this Trust Agreement and/or by any applicable state law to be delivered to any trust beneficiary; further, and to the extent not prohibited by any applicable state law, delivery to the Trust Protector shall be deemed to be the equivalent of delivery to the actual beneficiary. The Trust Protector shall have the power to compel accountings by written demand, and the fiduciary shall have 30 days from the date of service upon the fiduciary to remit such accounting to the Trustee. Accountings shall take the same form as accountings that would be submitted to the judicial office having supervisory authority over fiduciaries in the jurisdiction of the settlor’s residence at the time of settlor’s death. Failure to provide satisfactory accountings shall be grounds for removal of the fiduciary.

The Trustee shall consult with the Trust Protector as to the needs and requirements of the beneficiaries of the Trust, the suitability of any discretionary distribution and the fitness of any beneficiary to receive any distribution (pursuant to Paragraph 2.K., above); upon receipt of the recommendations of the Trust Protector, the Trustee shall have no duty to conduct an independent review of the individual beneficiary's situation and may rely on such recommendations. Notwithstanding the above:

The Trustee shall, at all times, retain the actual power to make any discretionary distributions;

If at any time there is no Trust Protector or if the Trust Protector fails to respond in writing in fifteen (15) days to any written request, then the Trustee may take such action as it deems to be in the best interest of the beneficiaries of the trust; and,

The Trust Protector shall not have any right or power to direct the Trustee to act in any manner inconsistent with any other duty or requirement herein set forth, or to direct the Trustee to act in any manner inconsistent with state laws concerning the fiduciary responsibilities of a Trustee.

Other than increasing or decreasing the interest of any beneficiary herein named or adding a new beneficiary, the Trust Protector may modify or amend the Trust Agreement for any valid purpose or reason, including, without limitation, to achieve favorable tax status or to respond to changes in the Code or state law, or the rulings and regulations under the Code or state law, so long as it is in the best interests of the beneficiaries.

The Trust Protector may modify the terms of a power of appointment granted by the trust.

The Trust Protector may change the applicable law governing the trust.

The Trust Protector shall have the power to be the final arbitrator of trust language and intent, except this power shall not apply to this provision 3.O.

The Trust Protector shall have the power to determine the trust uneconomical to administer as a small trust.

The Trust Protector shall have the power to review the appropriateness of trust investments and expenditures. All properties, books of account and records of each trust shall be made available by the Trustee to each Trust Protector for inspection at all times during normal business hours.

The Trust Protector shall have the power to issue a binding determination of disability or incapacity based on the requirements of that section herein.

The Trust Protector shall have the power to determine a refusal or inability to serve by a nominated successor trustee.

The Trust Protector shall have the power to determine what constitutes reasonable time for final distribution.

5.C.	Powers Terminate on Death. On my death, this Trust may not be amended, revoked, or terminated (except as provided in the trust herein).

Incapacity.
In the case of a question or dispute, an individual’s incapacity (whether the individual is me or anyone else with a nexus to the Trust) is established by the written certification of two (2) physicians, OR, if a Trust Protector has been appointed, by the Trust Protector that the Trustee is unable to effectively manage his or her own property or financial affairs, whether as a result of age, illness, use of prescription medications, drugs or other substances, or any other cause. The Trust Protector must conduct an independent investigation into the allegation, which shall include consulting with a physician who has skills, qualifications, and experience in diagnosing and treating the medical circumstances of the individual alleged to be incapacitated. The written certification of the Trust Protector shall include an explanation of the reasoning of the Trust Protector in rendering the decision. Third parties shall rely on an affidavit from the Trust Protector affirming that such a written certification has been made and stating the effective date of the incapacitation, and are hereby released from all liability connected to their reliance on the Trust Protector’s written certification;
If there is no question or dispute, an individual’s incapacity is established by the written certification of only one doctor OR by the Trust Protector, if a Trust Protector has been appointed;
An individual is deemed incapacitated if a court of competent jurisdiction has declared the individual to be incompetent or legally incapacitated. If an individual fails to grant the court making such determination valid authorization to disclose such individual’s protected health information under any applicable federal and/or state statute, or if such individual subsequently revokes such authority, the individual shall be deemed incapacitated; and,
An individual is deemed restored to capacity whenever the individual’s personal or attending physician provides a written opinion that the individual is able to effectively manage his or her own property and financial affairs and such individual may then resume the position of Trustee or co-Trustee held immediately prior to the incapacitation;
In the Summary of Estate Planning Provisions:
[Paragraph 3.O.] allows for the appointment of a Trust Protector. The Trust Protector is someone with the ability to react to changes in the law, or facts and circumstance that we can anticipate might cause trouble for Trustees and Beneficiaries down the road. The Trust Protector has 13 enumerated powers which are intended to allow the Trust Protector to fix things in the event someone needs to act on behalf of the beneficiaries. The Trust Protector has a fiduciary duty towards the beneficiaries. The Trust Protector is compensated on a time and effort basis out of the Trust Estate and shall be reimbursed for out of pocket expenses. The Trust Protector has the following powers:

With Fiduciary Duty:
I reserve the right, to appoint and remove a Trust Protector of this trust at any time or times by written notification to the then-acting Trustee. During my lifetime, I may not be removed as Trustee of this Trust, except pursuant to court order, or as I shall resign, or pursuant to the incapacity provisions of this Trust Agreement.  If any appointed Trust Protector is unwilling or unable to act, then such Trust Protector may appoint a successor Trust Protector by designating such successor by an instrument in writing delivered to the then-acting Trustee and to me; and may, by the same method, revoke any designation of a successor Trust Protector before it becomes effective. In addition, any successor Trust Protector so serving is authorized to designate, by an instrument in writing delivered to the then-acting Trustee, a successor Trust Protector. A successor Trustee, or the adult beneficiaries (in the case of a minor, as represented by their Guardian) holding a present interest in the Trust Estate may, by majority election, appoint an independent third-party to act as Trust Protector if one has not been previously appointed. In the case of a dispute between successor trustee(s) and the beneficiaries as to the selection of a Trust Protector, the choice of the beneficiaries shall prevail. If no Trust Protector may act due to death, disability, defunct practice, or the Trustee’s inability to locate them within 90 days of commencing a reasonable and diligent search, the adult beneficiaries of the trust, or in the case of a minor, as represented by their Guardian, holding a present interest in the Trust Estate may elect a successor Trust Protector by majority election of said beneficiaries. No beneficiary of a trust established herein and no other person whose appointment may cause such person to be treated as the owner of the trust (or any portion thereof) for federal income tax purposes (pursuant to §§671, et seq, of the Code) may serve as Trust Protector. In exercising discretion as the Trust Protector, it is my specific intent that the Trust Protector shall be considered a fiduciary under VA Code 64.2-770(E), as amended. The Trust Protector shall be paid a reasonable fee based on the time and effort of the Trust Protector, payable without court order and shall be reimbursed for out-of-pocket expenses. The Trust Protector’s powers shall specifically apply to any sub-trust or entity created by the terms of this trust. Any acting Trust Protector shall have the following powers:
